Create RHEL installation doc (#152)
RotherOSS/doc-otobo-installation: content/installation-rhel.rst

OTOBO Installation on RHEL
==========================

This chapter describes the installation and basic configuration of the central OTOBO framework on a Red Hat Enterprise Linux system.

Follow the detailed steps in this chapter to install OTOBO on your RHEL server. You can then use its web interface to login and administer the system.

.. note::

    We recommend Docker and Docker Compose for the OTOBO installation because it's configuration works independent
    of the base operating system (Ubuntu, SUSE, etc.)
    By using the provided Docker images, all recommended dependencies (such as Elasticsearch, Redis Cache, etc.)

>     are installed and configured automatically. Updates are thus greatly simplified and the performance has been improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    are installed and configured automatically. Updates are thus greatly simplified and the performance may improve.
```

    You can find the instructions for Docker-based installation at
    https://doc.otobo.org/manual/installation/11.0/en/content/installation-docker.html .

Preparation: Disable SELinux when it is installed and enabled
-------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

>    If your system uses SELinux, you should disable it, otherwise OTOBO will not work correctly. If you want to use OTOBO with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   RHEL employs SELinux.
   However, OTOBO will not work correctly. If you want to use OTOBO with SELinux enabled, you will have to configure the SELinux permission policy for this application manually.
```

      #       disabled - No SELinux policy is loaded.
      SELINUX=disabled
      # SELINUXTYPE= can take one of these two values:
      #       targeted - Targeted processes are protected,
      #       mls - Multi Level Security protection.
      SELINUXTYPE=targeted

2. Reboot your system. After reboot, confirm that the ``getenforce`` command returns *Disabled*:

   .. code-block:: bash

      root> getenforce
      Disabled

Step 1: Unpack and Install OTOBO
------------------------------------------

Download the latest otobo release from https://ftp.otobo.org/pub/otobo/.
Unpack the source archive (for example, using ``tar``) into the directory ``/opt/otobo-install``:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> mkdir /opt/otobo-install && mkdir /opt/otobo                      # Create a temporary install directory
    root> cd /opt/otobo-install                                             # Change into the update directory
    root> wget https://ftp.otobo.org/pub/otobo/otobo-latest-11.0.tar.gz     # Download he latest OTOBO 10 release
    root> tar -xzf otobo-latest-11.0.tar.gz                                 # Unzip OTOBO

>     root> cp -r otobo-10.x.x/* /opt/otobo                                   # Copy the new otobo directory to /opt/otobo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    root> cp -r otobo-11.x.x/* /opt/otobo                                   # Copy the new otobo directory to /opt/otobo
```

Step 2: Install Additional Programs and Perl Modules
----------------------------------------------------

Use the following script to get an overview of all installed and required CPAN modules and other external dependencies.

.. note::

   On RHEL systems you may need to manually install some perl packages. Only one of the following steps is required.
   
   Option A: Install packages using cpanm - easy to manage

   .. code-block:: bash

      dnf install -y perl mysql-devel perl-App-cpanminus                            # Installs the cpanm package manager
      cpanm cpanm --cpanfile /opt/otobo/cpanfile.noapache --installdeps /opt/otobo  # Installs all required packages

>    Option B: Deploy packages manually - for secure environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Option B: Deploy prebuilt packages - for environments with limited capabilities
```

      root> wget https://ftp.otobo.org/pub/otobo/rhel-packages-11.0.tar.gz            # Download all required packages
      root> tar -xzf rhel-packages-11.0.tar.gz                                        # Unzip packages
      root> echo 'export PERL5LIB="/opt/otobo/install/local/lib/perl5"' >> ~/.profile # Add additional library path to otobo user

   You should now see a ``install`` folder containing some required perl packages  

.. code-block:: text

   root> perl /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.CheckModules.pl -list
   Checking for Perl Modules:
     o Archive::Tar.....................ok (v1.90)
     o Archive::Zip.....................ok (v1.37)
     o Crypt::Eksblowfish::Bcrypt.......ok (v0.009)
   ...

.. note::

   Please note that OTOBO requires a working Perl installation with all *core* modules such as the module ``version``.

To install the required and optional packages, you can use ``perl-App-cpanminus`` or the package manager of your Linux distribution if the package is available.

Execute this command to get an install command to install the missing dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

   root> /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.CheckModules.pl --inst

.. note::

>    There are a number of optional or alternative modules which can be installed, mostly for more customized versions of OTOBO. Calling CheckModules.pl without any argument will list its full functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   There are a number of optional or alternative modules which can be installed, mostly for more customized versions of OTOBO. Calling CheckModules.pl without any argument will list a complete listing of packages required for full functionality.
```

Step 3: Create the OTOBO User
-----------------------------

Create a dedicated user for OTOBO within its own group:

.. code-block:: bash

   root> useradd -r -U -d /opt/otobo -c 'OTOBO user' otobo -s /bin/bash

> Add the user to web server group (if the web server is not running as otobo user):

Reviewer: Why?

.. code-block:: bash

   root> usermod -G nginx otobo

Step 4: Activate the Default Configuration File
-----------------------------------------------

There is an OTOBO configuration file bundled in ``$OTOBO_HOME/Kernel/Config.pm.dist``. You must activate it by copying it without the ``.dist`` file name extension.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> cp /opt/otobo/Kernel/Config.pm.dist /opt/otobo/Kernel/Config.pm

Step 5: Configure systemd services for OTOBO
--------------------------------------------

The RHEL version of the OTOBO framework manages most core processes with custom systemd files. To make sure that these files are visible to the system they need to 
be copied to a valid systemd directory. In this example we will be using ``/etc/systemd/system``.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> ln /opt/otobo/var/systemd/* /etc/systemd/system/
   root> systemctl daemon-reload

> After the deamon-reload all services should be controllable using systemd control service like ``systemctl``.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the deamon-reload all services should be controllable using systemd control service like ``systemctl``.
However, activation takes place later, after setup.  
```

Step 6: Configure the Nginx Web Server
---------------------------------------

First of all, you should install the Apache2 web server and mod_perl; you'd typically do this from your system's package manager.

> Below you'll find the commands needed to set up Apache on the most popular Linux distributions.

Reviewer: OTOBO's webserver listenes to connections on `localhost` port 5000.
You need a reverse proxy in order to expose OTOBO.

.. code-block:: bash

   # RHEL / CentOS:
   root> dnf install nginx

Most Nginx installations under RHEL have a ``conf.d`` directory included. You can usually find this directory under ``/etc/nginx``.

Configure Nginx without SSL support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Copy the template file ``/opt/otobo/scripts/nginx.conf`` to
the httpd ``conf.d`` directory. In most cases no further editing of the template

> is required. Then enable the new configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example configuration in provided at ``/opt/otobo/scripts/nginx.conf``. 
In most cases no further editing of the template is required. 
The new configuration need to be activated, susequently.
```

   root> systemctl restart nginx

Configure Nginx **with** SSL support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Copy the template files ``/opt/otobo/scripts/nginx-ssl.conf`` to the nginx ``conf.d`` directory.

.. code-block:: bash

   # Debian/Ubuntu:
   root> cp /opt/otobo/scripts/nginx-ssl.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/nginx-ssl.conf

Please edit the files and add the required information like SSL certificate storage path.

Now you can restart your web server to load the new configuration settings. On most systems you can use the following command to do so:

.. code-block:: bash

   root> systemctl restart nginx

Step 7: Set File Permissions
----------------------------

Please execute the following command to set the file and directory permissions for OTOBO. It will try to detect the correct user and group settings needed for your setup.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.SetPermissions.pl

Step 8: Setup the Database
--------------------------

First of all, you should install the database package. It is recommended to use the MySQL or MariaDB package, which will be delivered with your Linux system,

> but it is possible to use PostgreSQL or Oracle as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, you should install the database package. It is recommended to use the MySQL or MariaDB package, which will be delivered with your Linux system.
However, an external database may be used but latency may increase.
```

> You'd typically do this from your systems package manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packages for a local database may be obtained from the system's package manager.
```

> Below you'll find the commands needed to set up MySQL on the most popular Linux distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the commands needed to set up MySQL below:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   # RHEL / CentOS:
   root> dnf install mysql-server
   root> systemctl enable --now mysqld.service

After installing the MySQL server you need configure it.

> In MySQL higher or equal version 5.7  a new authentication module is active, and it is not possible to use the OTOBO web installer for database creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In MySQL higher or equal version 5.7 a new authentication module is active, and it is not possible to use the OTOBO web installer for database creation.
```

Please login to the mysql console and set a different authentication module and password for the user ``root`` if this is the case:

.. code-block:: bash

   root> mysql -u root
   root> ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password BY 'NewRootPassword';

> For MariaDB > 10.1 use instead the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For MariaDB > 10.1 use the following command instead:
```
